_projects/(2) Awesome Project.md, before:

---
name: Social Vulnerability in Edmonton Neighbourhoods
tools: [Python, Streamlit, Excel]
image: https://www.sketchappsources.com/resources/source-image/movie-badges-jurajjurik.png
description: This project has an individual showcase page, not just a direct link to the project site or repo. Now you have more space to describe your awesome project!
---

# The Movies Project

The Movies Project is something like **Netflix**, the only difference is that **it's not real**! It doesn't exist! I just created it to demonstrate how the **showcase** page looks like and how you can write whatever you want with full markdown support.

![preview](https://www.sketchappsources.com/resources/source-image/we-were-soldiers-landing-page-dbruggisser.jpg)

## Search Movies

![search](https://www.sketchappsources.com/resources/source-image/microsoft-windows-10-virtual-keyboard-diogo-sousa.png)

<p class="text-center">
{% include elements/button.html link="https://github.com/Jeff-Barlow-Spady/edm-svi" text="Learn More" %}
</p>

Commit message:

Update project description and add analysis report

_projects/(2) Awesome Project.md, after:

---
name: Social Vulnerability in Edmonton Neighbourhoods
tools: [Python, Streamlit, Excel]
image: https://www.sketchappsources.com/resources/source-image/movie-badges-jurajjurik.png
description: This report details the methodology, analysis, and outcomes of the Neighborhood Scoring System project. The project analyzed various socio-economic, demographic, and environmental metrics to distill these complex datasets into a single, interpretable vulnerability score for each neighborhood in Edmonton. A streamlit web app was built to visualize the neighborhood scores and related data.
---

# Neighborhood Scoring System: Statistical Analysis and Model Development Report 
## Analysis by Jeff Barlow-Spady

This report details the methodology, analysis, and outcomes of the Neighborhood Scoring System project.

## Objective

The primary goal of this analysis was to develop a comprehensive understanding of neighbourhood vulnerability using various socio-economic, demographic, and environmental metrics. The aim was to distil these complex datasets into a single, interpretable vulnerability score for each neighbourhood.

## Executive Summary

Through exploratory data analysis, factor analysis, and machine learning optimization techniques, I developed a statistical model to score neighbourhood vulnerability in Edmonton. Key metrics like income, education, housing, and health were reduced to underlying latent factors that determine neighbourhood vulnerability. Neighbourhoods were then scored based on their performance across these factors. The model achieved excellent predictive performance and provides meaningful insights into neighbourhood characteristics. With further refinement, this scoring system could support strategic planning and policymaking to address social inequities at the local level.



<p class="text-center">
{% include elements/button.html link="https://github.com/Jeff-Barlow-Spady/edm-svi" text="View on GitHub" %}
</p>
